---
title: Research
description: |
category: research
layout: default
tag: research
---
Freitas and Neumann (2009) explore changes to teaching through a consideration of an exploratory learning model which allows practitioners to rethink how they teach in 3D and immersive spaces where learning sequences and experiences are choreographed to support peer interactions and exchanges. Teaching in these contexts provides less emphasis upon curriculum and more emphasis upon sequencing learning experiences, meta-reflection, peer assessment, and group work.

Immersive environments are one recent innovation with significant promise, offering a sense of presence—the sense of “being there”—which can strengthen and reinforce distance learning (North, 2014). Distance learning technologies are becoming more important for the delivery of content as distance education seems rapidly growing adoption worldwide.

In an immersive environment, students are engaging knowledge bases such as knowledge of science concepts, knowledge of argument and argumentative practices, knowledge of how to use language, and knowledge of negotiation as a critical element of learning (Hand, Cavagnetto, Chen, & Park, 2016). These elements require teachers to take on new and different roles in implementing adaptive pedagogy because they necessitate the creation of learning environments where students use the various resources and knowledge bases, they bring to the learning environment while engaging in productive dialogue as a function of the epistemic use of language. Building on the prosocial perspective, Hand, et al., (2016) argue that the goal of dialogue in science classrooms is not only to interact/exchange ideas and persuade others, but also to establish an agreement where teachers and students work together as a community to search for deficiencies in their arguments through solving cognitive conflict utilizing language as a learning tool.

The study of visual perspectives within educational computer games is a qualitative exploration into the nature of flow—the state of being absorbed by an activity, and presence—the sense of ‘‘being there’’ in a virtual learning environment (Scoresby & Shelton, 2011). Most educational computer game research does not account for how learning activity is influenced by factors of game content and differences in viewing perspectives. The data analysis includes videotaped activity, transcripts, and interviews of six different games, three of which have explicit learning objectives derived from two different genres.

The principles of software product lines and model-driven engineering, and adopt the cloud platform to design an immersive learning environment called the Playground of Algorithms for Distributed Systems (PADS) are used to address certain concerns in a growing field (Barve, Patil, Bhattacharjee, & Gokhale, 2017). A prototype implementation of PADS is described to showcase use cases involving BitTorrent Peer-to-Peer file sharing, ZooKeeper-based coordination, and Paxos-based consensus, which show the benefits of rapid deployment of the distributed systems algorithms. An environment that promotes immersive, hands-on learning of distributed systems algorithms is needed to complement existing teaching modalities.

## References

Barve, Y. D., Patil, P., Bhattacharjee, A., & Gokhale, A. (2017, August). PADS: Design and Implementation of a Cloud-Based, Immersive Learning Environment for Distributed Systems Algorithms. IEEE Transactions on Emerging Topics in Computing, 6(1), 20-31. doi:10.1109/TETC.2017.2731984

Freitas, S. d., & Neumann, T. (2009, Febrauary). The use of ‘exploratory learning’ for supporting immersive learning in virtual environments. Computers & Education, 52(2), 343-352. doi:10.1016/j.compedu.2008.09.010

Hand, B., Cavagnetto, A., Chen, Y.-C., & Park, S. (2016, April). Moving Past Curricula and Strategies: Language and the Development of Adaptive Pedagogy for Immersive Learning Environments. Research in Science Education, 46(2), 223-241. doi:10.1007/s11165-015-9499-1

North, M. M. (2014, December). Distance learning immersive environments: Sense of presence exploration. Journal of Visual Languages & Computing, 25(6), 1040-1041. doi:10.1016/j.jvlc.2014.09.006

Scoresby, J., & Shelton, B. E. (2011, May). Visual perspectives within educational computer games: effects on presence and flow within virtual immersive learning environments. Instructional Science, 39(3), 227-254. doi:10.1007/s11251-010-9126-5