---
title: Research
description: |
category: research
layout: post
tag: research
---
Provides three learning constructs (behavioral, cognitive, and constructivist) that have been a fundamental building block to learning theory today. The comparison provides different viewpoints and illustrates how their differences might be turned into practical systems today. The article is older, but serves as a great foundational piece. (Ertmer & Newby, 1993)

Another foundational piece that delves into how context helps education. “The problem with learning a language from live context is that context itself cannot be learned, it can only be experienced.” This is a great argument for why educators have been trying to engage students more, and how VR could take that to the next level. (Ertmer & Newby, 1993)

Virtual reality (VR) has been a hot topic for several years; especially to those engaged in teaching and technology. With VR advancements, the ability to create a cost-effective virtual learning environment is becoming more of a reality and less a science fiction. (Brown, 2016)

Discusses virtual field trips and the opportunities it presents. Specifically references Google Expeditions and how immersive the low-cost option is. (Meyer, 2016)

“As we continue to offer these various formats, we need to embrace the challenge of implementing new technological approaches while continuing to foster the social interaction and collegial atmosphere in which academia was founded.” (Hodge, Tabrizi, Farwell, & Wuensch, 2007) Discusses strategies for creating social presence and for delivering virtual content for enhancing distance learning. Evaluates student satisfactions and effectiveness of course delivery.

## References

Brown, A. (2016, September). Virtual Reality: Low-Cost Tools and Resources for the Classroom. TechTrends, 60(5), 517-519. doi:10.1007/s11528-016-0102-z

Ertmer, P., & Newby, T. J. (1993). Behaviorism, Cognitivism, Contructivism: Comparing Critical Features from and Instructional Design Perspective. Performance Improvement Quarterly, 6(4), 50-71.

Hodge, E. M., Tabrizi, M., Farwell, M. A., & Wuensch, K. L. (2007, June 11). Virtual Reality Classrooms: Strategies for Creating a Social Presence. International Journal of Social Sciences, 2(2), 105-109.

Kramsch, C., & Anderson, R. W. (1999). Teaching Text and Context Through Multimedia. Language Learning & Technology, 31-42.

Meyer, L. (2016, February 24). Students Explore the Earth and Beyond with Virtual Field Trips. The Journal, Distance Learning, 4. Retrieved from http://www.ikzadvisors.com/wp-content/uploads/Students-Explore-the-Earth-and-Beyond-with-Virtual-Field-Trips-THE-Journal.pdf